Bistek Tagalog is a type of Filipino beef stew. This is also known as Beefsteak to some people. It is comprised of thin slices of beef and a generous amount of onions. These are stewed in a soy sauce and lemon juice mixture until the beef gets very tender. It is best enjoyed with warm rice.

Ingredients
½ cup soy sauce (such as Kikkoman®)

¼ cup lime juice

3 cloves garlic, smashed

2 teaspoons white sugar

1 teaspoon fish sauce (Optional)

ground black pepper to taste

1 pound beef steak, sliced 1/4-inch thick

2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided, or as needed

4 potatoes, cut into wedges (Optional)

1 large onion, cut into rings

⅛ cup water (Optional)


Directions
Step 1
Combine soy sauce, lime juice, garlic, sugar, fish sauce, and pepper in a bowl. Taste and adjust to your liking. Add sliced beef, making sure it is coated evenly. Marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to 1 hour.
Step 2
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a wok or pan over medium-high heat. Fry potatoes in the hot oil until the edges turn golden brown, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
Step 3
Heat remaining oil in the same pan over medium-high heat and fry onions until edges turn brown, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to the same plate.
Step 4
Heat the same pan over medium-high heat. Reserve marinade and fry beef in batches, adding more vegetable oil if necessary, until browned and no longer pink in the centers, 5 to 7 minutes. Transfer to the plate and continue with remaining beef.
Step 5
Pour reserved marinade into the pan with water to deglaze, scraping up browned bits from the bottom of the pan using a wooden spoon. Taste and adjust seasonings. Return beef back to the pan with some onion, leaving remaining onion for garnish; reduce heat and let simmer until sauce has thickened, 7 to 10 minutes.
Step 6
Slide beef and sauce onto a serving plate. Garnish with remaining onion. Place potatoes on the side and serve.

Tips
You can use lemon or calamansi juice instead of lime if preferred.

You can make the marinade/sauce saltier or more sour depending on your taste by adding soy sauce or lime juice. Adjust as necessary.

Nutrition Facts
Servings Per Recipe 4
Calories 445
% Daily Value *
Total Fat 17g	22%
Saturated Fat 5g	27%
Cholesterol 60mg	20%
Sodium 1953mg	85%
Total Carbohydrate 48g	17%
Dietary Fiber 6g	21%
Total Sugars 6g
Protein 26g
Vitamin C 50mg	251%
Calcium 56mg	4%
Iron 5mg	25%
Potassium 1300mg	28%



